Hi everybody and Merry Christmas to you!
I don't know what the temperature is where you are, but right now filming here, it's about 95 degrees. I'm on location in Nazareth, Israel. We recorded this as a divorce.
is a devotional for you for this Christmas during our last trip to Israel with our group in the summer of 2016. So it's so good to come from you from Nazareth on this Christmas.
Christmas holiday. We're actually in a place called the Nazareth Village, which was a place that was the vision of an Arab Christian who wanted to make the city of Nazareth
City of Nazareth or the little town of Nazareth, a replica of what it might have looked like back in the days of Jesus. And even for the purpose of our filming today, it's
The people of Nazareth village were kind enough to donate the very donkey that was used during the days of Mary.
on her way to Bethlehem.
Well not really but anyway let's use our imagination a little bit so it's so good to talk to you by way of video on this Christmas holiday as we celebrate the birth of jesus and here on location in the
and Nazareth. During the days of Jesus, this was his childhood town. This is where he grew up.
And during the times of Jesus as a little boy, this village probably had no more than about 100 people. It was an unknown village. It was a place where nothing really good or important
or important came out of it until, of course, Jesus put it on the map.
Today, Nazareth has a population of about 75 or 80,000 people. It is really entirely an Arab city. And among the Arabs who live in the Arab world,
Arabs who live here, about 20% are Christians.
And so this was not only the childhood place where Jesus grew up, but it was also the place where his mother and his adoptive dad, Joseph,
Joseph lived in 1945.
Because this is the very location somewhere here in Nazareth where the angel Gabriel came unto Mary, appeared to her and made this wonderful, incredible, miraculous
miraculous announcement that she had been chosen among all the young women of Israel to give birth to the promised Messiah. The very Messiah that the scriptures had prophesied
prophesied hundreds of prophecies related to the coming of the Messiah, which of course we know all those prophecies were fulfilled in Christ.
And so here today in Nazareth,
We wanted to be able to just share with you the Christmas story when Mary received that announcement from Gabriel the angel that she was chosen to give birth to.
birth to the Messiah. And so the passage is found here in Luke's Gospel, chapter 1.
I'm going to read starting at verse 26 down through verse 38, and it says this.
In the sixth month, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descent of the
Ascended of David.
The virgin's name was Mary.
And the angel went to her and said, Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you.
Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be.
But the angel said to her, "Do not be afraid, Mary."
"For you have found favor with God."
You will be with child and will give birth to a son.
And you were to give him the name Jesus.
And he will be great and will be called the son of the most high.
"'The Lord will give him the throne of his father David, "'and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. "'His kingdom will never end.'"
"How will this be?" Mary asked the angel, "since I am a virgin."
And the angel answered, "The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you."
And so the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God.
And even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age, and she who was said to be barren is in her sixth month.
for nothing is impossible with God.
"'I am the Lord's servant,' Mary answered. "'May it be to me as you have said.'"
And then the angel left her.
Try to imagine what it was like for Mary to hear this incredible announcement. I mean, here she is, most Bible scholars think probably about 15 years of age. The Bible says that she is
She is betrothed or engaged or pledged to be married to Joseph and
The 1980s. The 1980s. The 1980s. The 1980
And her parents and his had arranged for these two to be married.
And during the time between when they had pledged, made vows to be married, but before they actually physically consummated the marriage,
The Bible says that Mary was found to be with child.
So you can imagine how startling this must have been for Joseph, because during this year of betrothal, this year of when they were pledged to be married before they'd actually physically conquered
consummated. Here Mary is found to be pregnant. Now she's not pregnant because of any immorality on her part. She's found to be pregnant because God chose her among all the virgins
The virgins of the world at this time, that he should enter through her womb, take on flesh, to be born as a baby, to be grown up then as a man, to die on a
Dying to cross for our sins. And so this was God's providential plan for the redemption of mankind, that he would die for our sins. But he had to come into the world and take on flesh and
flesh and become like we are to assume our sins to die for us. And there was no other perfect person in the world who could die in our place.
And so God determined to come.
Now, we had to select a virgin because the sinful nature of humanity is passed through the seed of the man. And since we have all inherited a sin nature from our
From our ancestor Adam, God had to bypass the sinful seed of humanity. And that's why the Bible says that God, the Holy Spirit, came upon Mary.
Mary, that the seed of God, if you will, came upon, impregnated Mary, and so she became pregnant because God had visited her.
And thus Joseph then had to be told this through a dream.
so that he would not divorce her.
And the Bible says in Matthew 1:19 that he was a righteous man.
And he decided not to divorce her.
The Lord revealed this plan to him.
And so he took Mary to be his wife.
But they had no union, the Bible says, until she gave birth to Jesus.
And so Nazareth is this place where Jesus would grow up as a child.
But they would have to go to Bethlehem for his birth.
And that was also prophetic in the Bible. Micah 5 verse 2 says that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem.
and why they went to Bethlehem, because at the same time that Mary was in her ninth month,
There was a decree that went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed.
And every Jew had to return to the birthplace of his or her ancestor.
Now, the Bible says that Mary and Joseph were both descendants of King David.
and David was born in Bethlehem.
so marion joseph had to make basically a ninety mile journey.
to Bethlehem and there Jesus would be born again in fulfillment of Micah chapter 5 verse 2. More than 300 prophecies fulfilled
is fulfilled.
in the first coming of Jesus. And among them also we find three particular ones that are most popular in the book of Isaiah, which was written about seven
700 years before Christ.
There's a prophecy in Isaiah 7 about his birth, in Isaiah 9, and also in Isaiah 11.
Let me read the one from Isaiah 7, verse 14. It says,
"'Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign.'"
The virgin will be with child.
And will give birth to a son
and will call him Emmanuel.
Emmanuel in Hebrew means God with us because God came and He condescended to our level and He took on flesh and He died for our sins so He dwelt among us and we
and we beheld His glory, John tells us, the glorious of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. So He truly is Emmanuel, God with us.
And then Isaiah also said in Isaiah 9:6,
For to us a child is born, and to us a son is given.
And the government will be on his shoulders.
and he will be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father,
Prince of Peace.
Another great messianic verse, all fulfilled in Jesus.
And then also in Isaiah chapter 11, an interesting verse that actually ties into where we are in location here in Nazareth. It says this in Isaiah 11:1,
7171.
that a shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse.
From his roots a branch will bear fruit.
"'And the Spirit of the Lord will rest on him.'"
The spirit of wisdom and of understanding
The spirit of counsel and of power.
The spirit of knowledge.
and of the fear of the Lord and he will delight in the fear of the Lord and so it speaks about the coming of the Messiah and it uses terminology like an
an olive tree. When an olive tree is planted, it actually never really dies. In fact, we can go to some places in Jerusalem when we go to the Garden of Gethsemane,
And there are olive trees there that date back to the time of Jesus, more than 2,000 years old, because an olive tree, when it is planted and when it grows, certain parts of the tree
11 parts of the tree die, but as soon as it does, a new shoot will rise up, and thus the tree will continue to live. And in Isaiah 11, 1, it talks about a shoot.
Shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse. Jesse was the father of King David.
And so though Jesse dies.
And though David died, there comes this shoot up from the stump, if you will, the family line of Jesse and David. And it goes on to say, and from his
from his roots a branch.
will bear fruit. And in your Bibles, the word branch is capitalized because it refers to Jesus. Jesus is a descendant of King David's line.
And the word branch in Hebrew is "netzer."
And that is the same Hebrew root word
for the town of Nazareth. Nazareth is from the root word "netser" meaning "branch."
And so this is that place.
Where Jesus grew up as a young boy
And from Nazareth on location here, I just wanted to bring you a Christmas greeting and ask the Lord just to bless us this Christmas season with His grace.
and in particular with his peace. Because again, just reading from Isaiah 9:6, and then I want to pray for us, it says this:
For to us a child is born
And to us a son is given.
And the government will be upon his shoulders.
And he will be called Wonderful.
Counselor.
Mighty God.
Everlasting father
Prince of peace
And this Christmas season
May the Prince of Peace
May Jesus, the one whose birth we celebrate,
May he give you his perfect peace in your life.
and in our church. Let's pray together.
Father God, we thank you that we can be here on location in Nazareth and remember
This is the place where you sent the angel Gabriel to announce to Mary.
that she would give birth to Messiah.
And we thank you, God, that you determined to come to earth and to die for us, to save us from our sins.
and that you would enter the womb of a young virgin named Mary.
And by your seed, miraculously, Lord, you would come upon her and she would give birth to God in flesh so that Jesus would walk among us.
And experience our pain
And experience our sorrows
And take on our sin, though he had no sin.
to die for us in our place. And so we thank you, Jesus, for your sacrifice for us. And this Christmas season, Lord, we never want to forget the real meaning of Christmas, the birth of Jesus.
It's the birth of Jesus Christ.
Amen. And we just worship you, Lord, and we pray for your peace. Amen.
as the Prince of Peace
Upon our lives
Upon our homes, upon our marriages,
Upon our church
And we praise you and thank you that you are our peace.
and that you came to die for us. We love you, Lord. We thank you. We give you all glory and honor.
In Jesus' name, in your name we pray, Lord.
Amen and amen.
So Merry Christmas to you all and we also wish you a very Happy New Year. God bless you.